


Network Working Group                                     A. Yourtchenko
Internet-Draft                                                     cisco
Intended status: Informational                         November 27, 2013
Expires: May 29, 2014

    A comparison between the DHCPv6  and RA based host configuration
               draft-yourtchenko-ra-dhcpv6-comparison-00

Abstract

   This document attempts to make a balanced comparison between the RA-
   based and DHCPv6-based host configuration mechanisms.  It compares
   the two on different aspects, e.g: underlying media assumptions,
   coordination, locality, etc.  and highlights the strong and weak
   sides of both protocols for each scenario.

Status of this Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on May 29, 2014.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2013 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (http://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Simplified BSD License text
   as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Simplified BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
   2.  Comparison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
     2.1.  Interworking with different L2 topologies  . . . . . . . .  2

Yourtchenko               Expires May 29, 2014                  [Page 1]

Internet-Draft          RA and DHCPv6 comparison           November 2013

     2.2.  Acknowledged vs. Unacknowledged  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
     2.3.  Client initiated vs. server initiated  . . . . . . . . . .  3
     2.4.  Centralized coordination vs. distributed coordination  . .  4
     2.5.  Single Source of Truth vs. Multiple sources  . . . . . . .  4
     2.6.  The amount of server-side state  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
     2.7.  Involvement or not into routing  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
       2.7.1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
       2.7.2.  Discussion 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
       2.7.3.  Discussion 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
     2.8.  Server locality  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
     2.9.  Programming: UDP vs. ICMP  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
     2.10. Separate vs. unified management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     2.11. Scope of use / Applicability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     2.12. IPAM tools impact comparison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
     2.13. Security tools impact comparison . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
   3.  Arguments for running only a single protocol . . . . . . . . . 11
     3.1.  Support and Security Complexity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
   4.  Differences between different types of network operators . . . 11
   5.  Conclusion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
   6.  Musings on further protocol directions in IETF . . . . . . . . 12
   7.  Acknowledgements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
   8.  IANA Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
   9.  Security Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
   10. References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
   Author's Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

1.  Introduction

   IPv4 provided only one way of configuring the addresses: DHCP. Having
   no choice made the choice simple.  IPv6 provides a second mechanism
   called SLAAC in addition to using DHCPv6 in a fashion similar to
   IPv4.  This creates the problem: what is the best ? How do I know
   which of the two to use ? Since "the best" usually means "the best
   for me", it is an inherently locally-significant adjective.  A lot of
   arguments are not taking this into the account, resulting in deadlock
   situations and mutual frustrations during the discussion.  The goal
   of this document is dissecting the technical properties of both
   address configuration mechanisms.  This should hopefully result in a
   more objective and technical analysis, and allow for a better
   judgement of which mechanism is "better" in each specific case.

   The author of the document does not take any sides nor tries to
   promote one approach over the other.  If you, the reader, spot any
   instance where this is not the case, please inform the author so this
   could be corrected.

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119].

2.  Comparison

2.1.  Interworking with different L2 topologies




Yourtchenko               Expires May 29, 2014                  [Page 2]

Internet-Draft          RA and DHCPv6 comparison           November 2013


   RA is "server-initiated, send once, receive many, no confirmation"
   abstraction - something that works well on the 10base2-type shared
   bus and even the today's wired ethernet, but looks quite miserable on
   the WiFi media without the special tricks (802.11 provides reliable
   delivery for unicast frames, and does not provide one for multicast
   frames, also the physical speeds are different and even the
   contention management and the speed/modulation can be different as
   well).

   DHCPv6 is "client-initiated, send once, receive once, confirmation"
   abstraction.  This may be wasteful on the low-bandwidth links that
   provide bus topology, but maps extremely well onto scenarios like
   WiFi - as it allows to maintain somewhat familiar mode of operation
   to wired ethernet.

   This is where the peer-to-peer, acknowledged nature of DHCPv6 may be
   beneficial - on a crowded large-scale WiFi, without special tricks to
   ensure the reliable delivery of multicast packets, you simply will
   not get the SLAAC working because the multicast RAs will get crunched
   by the interference.

   Alternatively, in a very mobile environment and the RFC-compliant
   router, multicast solicited RAs might make a significant portion of
   your traffic - which, due to a difference in modulation, etc.  may
   eat way more bandwidth than if they were sent unicast.

2.2.  Acknowledged vs.  Unacknowledged

   DHCPv6 needs at least 2 packets.  RA is just one packet.

   RA strength: it is quicker; RA weakness: you have to take care that
   it is legitimate router and not your evil neighbor sending you the
   RAs you take the configuration from.

   DHCPv6 Plus: works well in the noisy/lossy environments; DHCPv6
   minus: takes at least 1 RTT to the server.  The necessity for the
   multiple packets exchange does not obviate the need for the securing
   DHCPv6 in a similar fashion.

   There is one additional reason for the DHCPv6 to be slower.  RFC3315
   states: "A client MUST collect Advertise messages for the first RT
   seconds, unless it receives an Advertise message with a preference
   value of 255.".  Since most of the time the preference in DHCPv6
   messages is not 255, the compliant nodes will be at least 1 second (+
   /- up to 0.1 sec) slower than those using RA - as RT is calculated
   based on SOL_TIMEOUT value.

2.3.  Client initiated vs.  server initiated

   Despite the division above, RA can be client-initiated, to some




Yourtchenko               Expires May 29, 2014                  [Page 3]

Internet-Draft          RA and DHCPv6 comparison           November 2013

   extent, with RS, and DHCPv6 can be server-initiated, to some extent,
   with "Reconfigure" messages.

   If we treat these as "nudge" messages, the behavior of the sending
   and receiving parties is similar - the "nudge" message causes the
   orderly protocol exchange to occur before the due time.

   The part that is different, though, is that RA, due to its "send
   once, receive many" nature, can aggregate the "nudge" messages, so
   intuitively seems best for a scenario with a very large number of the
   hosts, as it should have self-stabilizing properties, compared to
   DHCPv6.

   This "self-stabilizing" property intuitively seems to make RA safer
   to use, IFF it is used in purely "multicast" fashion.  However, the
   L2 media interaction concerns might affect and even cancel out this
   property, depending on the environment.

2.4.  Centralized coordination vs.  distributed coordination

   RA, due to its "send once, receive many" nature, in its pure form
   necessarily can not dictate a per-client settings, but rather can
   only advise the domain the client would pick from (SLAAC).

   DHCPv6 on the other hand, due to its p2p nature is by default well
   suited for the individual per-client tweaking.

   The distributed nature can be a blessing if you do not care about who
   gets which address and a curse if you need to account everyone
   strictly.

   NB: address assignment does not mean that the hosts will always use
   those addresses - e.g.  it's perfectly possible to statically
   configure a different address, but we talk just homogenous standards-
   compliant well-behaved hosts for simplicity sake).

   That's why the title of this section does not use the word "control"
   but rather uses the word "coordination".

2.5.  Single Source of Truth vs.  Multiple sources

   The DHCPv6 model requires the client to choose only one of the
   advertise messages that it receives.  When using RA, the client can
   combine information from multiple sources.

   This section is quite intertwined with the previous one (distributed/
   centralized), and the reasoning for when a particular protocol is
   "good" or "bad" will be similar - RA based configuration will be best
   in case the networks are not under administration, and the hosts are
   given a lot of flexibility.





Yourtchenko               Expires May 29, 2014                  [Page 4]

Internet-Draft          RA and DHCPv6 comparison           November 2013


   On the other hand, DHCPv6 will be useful for the case where there is
   a need to tightly control the behavior of the hosts and have a highly
   predictable configuration of the network as a whole.  Of course, as a
   tradeoff such predictability brings potentially increased fragility.

   An example where this difference might be crucial is a segment with
   two servers, aware of each other state.  If server A goes down, then
   server B, when using RA-based mechanism, can just send a message with
   the lifetime of zero.  The DHCPv6-based implementation of this
   scenario would need to be more involved - if the client trusted the
   server A to begin with, it will not listen to notifications from B -
   so B will need to spoof A in some way.

   However, at the same time this ease with which one device can
   instruct the hosts on behalf of the other can be also considered a
   weakness in a stricter environment - and require additional security
   measures in place so that a malicious host did not impersonate a
   router.

2.6.  The amount of server-side state

   RA in its pure form is inherently stateless - there is no per-client
   information stored on the sending router.  This eases the things like
   redundancy and failover compared to DHCPv6.

   DHCPv6 in its stateless incarnation also does not keep the state -
   however, in the scenario of the DHCPv6 server sending the RECONFIGURE
   message to the client, DHCPv6 server must keep some knowledge of the
   client - which means it might need to keep some state.

   [FIXME] Further experimentation needed to test how it actually works
   in real life implementations.

   jinmei@wide.ad.jp: If you mean the Delayed Authentication Protocol by
   DHCPv6 authentication, the WIDE DHCPv6 supports it: http://
   sourceforge.net/projects/wide-dhcpv6/ although I myself have only
   used it in testing.  I heard some other vendors implemented it, too.
   (And, for that matter, it also supports the Information Refresh Time
   option (RFC4242)).

2.7.  Involvement or not into routing

2.7.1.  











Yourtchenko               Expires May 29, 2014                  [Page 5]

Internet-Draft          RA and DHCPv6 comparison           November 2013

   An RA-based protocol interaction may influence host's routing.  A
   DHCPv6-based interaction today can not influence the host's routing -
   it was specifically denied any and all involvement into routing.

   RAs as a mechanism, due to its "multiple sources of truth" nature,
   can allow unsophisticated form of routing resiliency for the hosts.

   While architecturally "pure", the reliability and timing of the
   routing resiliency provided by the RAs is far below those achieved by
   FHRP protocols - which makes the "distributed routing for
   unsophisticated hosts" property unusable in the most networks.

   With this, the role of the RAs is reduced to just supplying the
   default gateway (and maybe some static routes) - something that is
   successfully done by DHCPv4 today.  This creates an impression that
   adding this functionality to DHCPv6 would allow to get rid of the RA
   completely for that use case.

   However, the "single source of truth" nature of DHCPv6 prevents the
   successful operation in case of multiple servers on the segment
   supplying different information.  RAs in this case may still work.

   Some consider the inability to support this scenario crucial, and
   some think it is not useful.  This creates contention between the
   proponents of those who want DHCPv6 deal with routing, and those who
   think RA is the single possible candidate for that.

   The other aspect is that because RA ties in the routing and
   addressing information, one can say "RA shares the fate with
   routing".  However, this distinction is merely because of the
   decision to explicitly keep DHCPv6 away from routing - so can not be
   considered a true property of the protocol.

   brian@innovationslab.net: you do not know that the DHCPv6 message you
   received came from a router or a server.

   [FIXME]: This section needs further debates, clarifications, and a
   rewrite.  I am not sure I correctly captured the essence.  The
   arguments are welcome!

2.7.2.  Discussion 1














Yourtchenko               Expires May 29, 2014                  [Page 6]

Internet-Draft          RA and DHCPv6 comparison           November 2013


   From nick@inex.ie: The premise that many people in the IETF seem to
   be working on is that the typical - or even a common - deployment
   case of ipv6 will involve multiple routers per lan segment.  I say
   this because every time the issue of DHCP providing a defgw comes up,
   one of the main arguments that's trotted out is that it will break
   the multiple-routers-per-lan-segment scenario.  The above 3
   paragraphs also strongly hint at this as being the target deployment.
   Well maybe dhcpv6 doesn't do that, but the operational reality is
   that multiple gateways on the same lan is going to be the rare
   exception rather than the rule.  The reason why I think this is
   because: 1. enterprises have an obtuse obsession for L2.  They'd pave
   the world with L2 and extend L2 from one end of the universe to the
   other if they could.  Just look at the horror of vxlan (who are they
   kidding?  themselves?) as a perfect example of this insanity.  I
   don't know why this is but it's the way that lots of enterprise
   rolls, ranging from SME to largish networks.  Outside truly large
   operations (i.e.  10s of thousands of users), I have never got the
   impression that enterprises got L3 routing.

   From v6ops@globis.net: I think you do Enterprise engineers a serious
   dis-service.  Many consciously choose for L2 interfaces (with HSRP/
   VRRP) isolation LANs between service providers precisely because L3
   is more complex to debug and engineer across an administrative
   boundary.  Even agreeing on an IGP can be tricky, never mind worrying
   about route flapping or redistribution loops.  Experience has shown
   that HSRP/VRRP + static routes in a simple active/standby
   construction can deliver extremely robust SLA KPI's.  Secondly,
   practical deployment of L3 routing protocols on end hosts was a no-go
   in IPv4.

   From nick@inex.ie: 2. homenet: I don't understand the target audience
   for the entire homenet multiple network movement.  Putting this
   another way: who is going to debug homenet multiple network stuff
   when it breaks, because as far as I can tell, that belongs in the
   realm of level 2 engineering escalation (i.e.  $120/hr sort of
   thing).  It's a little far-fetched to expect gramps and grandma to
   set up and maintain and debug multiple networking segments.  A good
   chunk of the stuff going on in homenet is vastly more complicated
   than pretty much any home network is ever going to need.
   Architecturally interesting, but srsly not realistic as a viable
   approach to home networking.

   From v6ops@globis.net: I think Homenet WG well-understands the
   challenges with deployment and little-conf..

   From nick@inex.ie: 3. service providers - the single operational
   group on the internet that actually understands L3 / network
   segmentation and why it's important - will attempt avoid multiple
   gateways per network like the plague because it makes their
   deployment scenarios more complicated and provides no extra value.
   For server / host farms, service providers like FHRP with tight
   timers because it gives control of onward connectivity.  All of which
   doesn't leave very many more user-market segments.

Yourtchenko               Expires May 29, 2014                  [Page 7]

Internet-Draft          RA and DHCPv6 comparison           November 2013


   From v6ops@globis.net: I disagree entirely, and would characterise
   this as a rather network-operator-centric view, rather than a host-
   centric view.

   From nick@inex.ie: Regarding RA for routing and DHCP for addressing,
   what people care about is connectivity.  What I need as an operator
   is a protocol (preferably a single protocol because that is simpler)
   which will enable my boxes to gain the connectivity they need.
   Whether you call this routing or providing a default gateway, I don't
   much mind.  Look, there's too much ideology going on here.  The IETF
   is being dazzled by the sight of multiple lan segments and multiple
   egress gateways without realising that these are the minority
   configuration.  All this effort is going into optimising ipv6 address
   / lan autoconfiguration for these unusual scenarios without heeding
   the sober reality that most people, service providers and enterprises
   are only ever going to want to have a single defgw per lan segment,
   and that by far the most common deployment scenario will be a single
   lan segment per organisation.

   From v6ops@globis.net: Move to wireless?  My smartphone already has
   two radios and a physical interface, connected to multiple providers.
   How exactly do you then configure a "single defgw per lan segment"
   (without draft-troan-homenet-sadr-01)

   From nick@inex.ie: I'm aware that this viewpoint will be regarded as
   retrograde, and that a bunch of people on this list will probably sit
   there, rolling their eyes and thinking: "yeah, and 640k was enough
   for everyone".  Just bear in mind that added complexity is not
   necessarily a good thing.  The support costs are high and the return
   on effort is dubious at best.  IOW, the IETF is optimising a corner
   case.

2.7.3.  Discussion 2

   From nick@inex.ie: The question is why would someone use RA for
   multiple gateway announcement when you'll get much better operational
   performance from a FHRP + single gateway address?  And why use RA for
   addressing when you'll get finer grained operational host control
   using dhcp?

   From markzzzsmith@yahoo.com.au: You can have client specific RAs that
   solve that problem.  This is not a missing capability that
   duplicating RA functionality in DHCPv6 would then provide.











Yourtchenko               Expires May 29, 2014                  [Page 8]

Internet-Draft          RA and DHCPv6 comparison           November 2013


   From nick@inex.ie: Or when you need to use dhcp anyway in order to
   make your hosts do what they need to do?  Or on server farms when
   most of your hosts are statically addressed and it doesn't make sense
   to have multiple gateways with different addresses - and you'll get
   better uptime by not using RA? I'm not proposing to take away the
   option of using RAs if that's what you want to do.  I'm only
   suggesting that for many situations, it makes more sense to have a
   single static gateway address (optionally with multiple routers using
   a FHRP if you need reliability) and that consequently the idea of
   periodically announcing a selection of arbitrary gateways via RA is
   operationally second rate.

   From markzzzsmith@yahoo.com.au: I would really like to know specific
   details of these many situations, and what specific benefits
   switching off RAs would have.  I have been in many situations in many
   networks, and when I consider my IPv4 experience (and also compare it
   to my Novell IPX and Appletalk experiences), I see a lot of value in
   having RAs provide default gateway(s) (VRRP/HSRP or not) information
   and other layer 3 parameters to directly attached hosts from the
   directly attached router(s). This is in comparison with the IPv4
   alternative effort of enabling and configuring a heavier and more
   resource consuming stateful DHCP server on either the first hop
   routers, or enabling DHCP relays and then having to have a redundant
   DHCP infrastructure somewhere else in the network.  It could be
   argued that DHCP could be enabled and configured by default, but that
   is also obviously the case with RAs, and they have been enabled by
   default since day one.  The ability to automate the configuration of
   DHCP does not inherently make DHCP better than RAs.

2.8.  Server locality

   Both DHCPv6 and RA are inherently link-local mechanisms, however
   DHCPv6 has a means to "jump" over multiple hops by use of the relays.
   This means RA *has* to be distributed, while DHCPv6 can be both
   centralized and distributed.  Frequently it is made centralized
   because of other benefits that centralized administration brings, but
   almost any router today can run a DHCPv6 server itself with very
   little problem.

2.9.  Programming: UDP vs.  ICMP

   For a random programmer today, coding a server to receive the data on
   a UDP socket is a more familiar exercise than working with ICMP.
   Disclaimer: the value of "random" was chosen to be "me" for arbitrary
   reasons.

   This point is more of a rathole and a personal preference, probably.
   [FIXME] In Windows one of the two was way easier to extend than the
   other, but I do not remember which.





Yourtchenko               Expires May 29, 2014                  [Page 9]

Internet-Draft          RA and DHCPv6 comparison           November 2013


   lorenzo@google.com:  ICMP is harder than UDP to implement; it often
   requires raw sockets or kernel collaboration (e.g., on Linux RDNSS
   information can be read using netlink.  UDP is much simpler). On the
   other hand, I think stateful DHCPv6 is a more complicated protocol to
   implement than RAs, with more message types and so on.

   jinmei@wide.ad.jp: I don't know why Linux uses a non portable API,
   but I believe writing programs handling RA options like RDNSS is no
   harder than writing DHCPv6 client in terms of socket API.  As long as
   the system supports RFC3542 you should be able to write a portable RA
   "client" pretty easily (meaning as easy/hard as writing some UDP
   client program).  For example, FreeBSD's rtsold supports RDNSS and
   (AFAIK) only relies on the RFC3542 APIs.  Also, since DHCP is
   trickier than other UDP applications in some points (it's more
   sensitive to which interface to use, and in some cases you need to
   make sure the source address is link-local, etc), it's quite likely
   that you'll need something like unusual APIs like RFC3542 or some
   non-portable system dependent interface to write a standard-compliant
   DHCP(v6) client.  So, overall, I'd say the programming difficulty
   regarding UDP (DHCP) vs ICMP (RS/RA) is marginal.

2.10.  Separate vs.  unified management

   If DHCPv4 and routing is managed by the different groups in the
   organization, then conceivably the "server" people will not like to
   have their work go away and similarly "router" guys are happy to get
   rid of yet another point of coordination and argument.

   This is where the "I hate $protocol" could definitely pop up -
   because for one side it may be the media interworking that is a
   crucial factor, while for the other side it is the amount of state
   held on the server - thus the agreement would never be achieved
   because they are arguing about different things.

2.11.  Scope of use / Applicability

   From volz@cisco.com: DHCP SHOULD configure the network resources
   available for the client device to use (i.e., things needed to
   provide tnetwork connectivity and access to that network's services).
   It should not configure user specific services (i.e., there was some
   discussion about email (SMTP, POP, IMAP server) information as an
   example of something that would not be DHCP configured).

   From Ted.Lemon@nominum.com: One point of clarification that I found
   useful but was not universally applauded was the notion that if the
   protocol is or was in the Internet area, it's probably something you
   can configure with DHCP; if it's not, think carefully before using
   DHCP to configure it.  This lets out a _lot_ of stuff that has
   options in DHCPv4.   But I can't think of anything it excludes that
   I'd want to keep around.   Of course, Mobile IPv6 is an Internet area
   protocol, and it's not entirely clear to me that it's configurable
   via DHCP, although there exist DHCP options to configure it.


Yourtchenko               Expires May 29, 2014                 [Page 10]

Internet-Draft          RA and DHCPv6 comparison           November 2013


   [FIXME]: AY: The above imho overlaps semantically with another
   paragraph where RA are sent by routers.

2.12.  IPAM tools impact comparison

   From Brian Carpenter.  For further discussion.

2.13.  Security tools impact comparison

   From Brian Carpenter.  For further discussion.

3.  Arguments for running only a single protocol

   The "Comparison" section aims to highlight the various differences,
   and implicitly show the reasoning to have two protocols implemented
   in the nodes.  This section enumerates the reasons for a network
   operator to strongly prefer having only one of these two protocols in
   operation on the network at any point in time.

3.1.  Support and Security Complexity

   nick@inex.ie: this brings up another important issue, namely source
   address validation.  I'm not sure if it's relevant to bring this up
   in your draft, but the requirement to handle snooping two new
   protocols for effective lan source address validation seems to be
   more than most vendors can handle at the moment, which means that as
   operators we are very exposed to rogue RAs and rogue DHCPv6 packets
   flying around networks.

4.  Differences between different types of network operators

   Mostly placeholder, to capture the different requirements from
   various different network profiles (home-like zeroconf network, rural
   type network, university campus, enterprise, bank, ISP, etc.).

5.  Conclusion

   This document has attempted to show that both DHCPv6 and RA based
   configuration mechanisms have their unique strengths and weaknesses,
   and each of them may be "the best" depending on the environment for a
   particular network.

   Therefore, the host stacks which expect to maximize their chances of
   connectivity when moving between different networks, will achieve
   this best by implementing both mechanisms - else they might end
   lacking essential configuration parameters if the network supports
   the mechanism of not their choosing.

   The networks may adopt a similar approach of attempting to support
   both mechanisms at once, to try to accomodate the "single-minded"
   hosts - but doing so usually incurs the overhead, which should be
   evaluated by the network administrators.


Yourtchenko               Expires May 29, 2014                 [Page 11]

Internet-Draft          RA and DHCPv6 comparison           November 2013


6.  Musings on further protocol directions in IETF

   To discuss: do we define spheres of influence for SLAAC/RA and
   DHCPv6, with strictly limited overlap, or do we try to make them
   equipotent, with a shared data model for their options?

7.  Acknowledgements

   Thanks to Ted Lemon for triggering the creation of this document.

   Thanks to Lorenzo Colitti for the valuable discussion about the
   server-side state and the client-server initiated interactions.

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

10.  References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

Author's Address

   Andrew Yourtchenko
   cisco
   7a de Kleetlaan
   Diegem, 1830
   Belgium
   
   Phone: +32 2 704 5494
   Email: ayourtch@cisco.com





















Yourtchenko               Expires May 29, 2014                 [Page 12]
